adr: Add <AMS>-batch-number label/taint for AMS (#535)
elastisys/compliantkubernetes: docs/adr/0034-add-batch-number-label-taint-for-AMS-dedicated-nodes.md

> # Add <AMS>-batch-number label/taint for AMS with dedicated nodes

Reviewer: Ha ha, it's good that we have these ADRs. I was operating under the assumption that we would use only `batch-number` for all AMS-es, since the Nodes already have the `elastisys.io/node-type` taint/label. Did I get this wrong.

Also, could we use `elastisys.io/batch-number` to make it clear that it is "ours"?

Author: That was the plan, I just didn't thought I need to use it in all the places.
I changed it now
Please recheck

How can we overcome this issue? Should we add a `<AMS>-batch-number` label/taint for the AMS with dedicated nodes?

## Decision Drivers

* We want to deliver a stable and secure platform.
* We want to best serve our customer needs.
* We want to find a solution which is scalable and minimizes administrator burden.
* We don't want to waste infrastructure.

## Considered Options

* Scale the AMS dedicated nodes vertically so that it fits all packages on the same set of nodes.
* Add additional label/taints like `<AMS>-batch-number` and taint the nodes or change/update the nodeType label to match the taint
* Add additional label/taints like `<AMS>-batch-number` but do not taint the nodes or change/update the nodeType label to match the taint.

## Decision Outcome

> Chosen options = 1 & 3 : "Scale the AMS dedicated nodes vertically so that it fits all packages on the same set of nodes" where possible, if not possible then --> "Add additional label/taints like `<AMS>-batch-number` but do not taint the nodes or change/update the nodeType label to match the taint."

Reviewer: Can we have this more "bullet-style" to improve readability?

```suggestion
Chosen options: 1 and 3.

1. "Scale the AMS dedicated nodes vertically so that it fits all packages on the same set of nodes" where possible.
2. If not possible then:
    * Add the additional label like `elastisys.io/batch-number: 1`.
    * Do not taint the Nodes"
    
In both cases, respect [ADR-0022](0022-use-dedicated-nodes-for-additional-services) and add the `elastisys.io/node-type` taint and label.
```

### Positive Consequences

* The infrastructure footprint is lower by reducing the number of nodes.
* The platform stability and scalability of the platform is improved.
* With option 1 more resources are available to the customer
* With option 3 we provide extra isolation of the AMS and stability.
* Being able to choose from option 1 or option 3 we are flexible and we can satisfy more of the customer needs.
* We can add more labels that will better describe and schedulle our AMS services, like `local-disk` and others.

### Negative Consequences

* For option 3 we need to add the new label to the AMS repo and update documentation.

## Recommendations to Operators

> - Use label like: `elastisys.io/<AMS>-batch-number`

Reviewer: Make sure to use the same label throughout the document, e.g., title, considered options, decision, recommendations to operators.

Author: Done
Thx
Please recheck

> # Add `elastisys.io/batch-number` label/taint for AMS with dedicated nodes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Use `elastisys.io/batch-number` label for AMS's ordered in batches
```

* Status: accepted
* Deciders: arch meeting
* Date: 2023-03-16

## Context and Problem Statement

> Some of our customers request multiple AMS packages of different sizes. In some cases we need to add dedicated nodes for each AMS package and this brings up the problem where we need to stick the package to a specific set of nodes otherwise for example, after a maintenance that reboots the nodes, a postgres-4 package might be schedulled on a node that was intended for a postgres-8 package and the postgres-8 pod will not be able to be schedulled on the postgres-4 node.

Reviewer 2: I think we can make it more concise, e.g.
```suggestion
Sometimes we get batch orders of an additional manages service (AMS).
We decided in ADR-xyz that for an AMS ordered in batch, we run that batch on the same set of dedicated hardware. 
We need a way to ensure that only a batch ordered AMS runs on the dedicated hardware for that batch.
How can we achieve this?
```

How can we overcome this issue? Should we add a `elastisys.io/batch-number` label/taint for the AMS with dedicated nodes?

## Decision Drivers

* We want to deliver a stable and secure platform.
* We want to best serve our customer needs.
* We want to find a solution which is scalable and minimizes administrator burden.
* We don't want to waste infrastructure.

## Considered Options

> * Scale the AMS dedicated nodes vertically so that it fits all packages on the same set of nodes.

Reviewer 2: Don't think this was in discussion regarding the label
```suggestion
```

> * Scale the AMS dedicated nodes vertically so that it fits all packages on the same set of nodes.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this be it's own adr? see my comment above

Reviewer: I think it makes sense to write down that we considered simply increasing the size of the Nodes until all AMS-es of the same type fit on the same 3 Nodes. However, we rejected this options because it is wasteful, e.g., PostgreSQL-8 + PostgreSQL-4 would waste 4 GB of memory.

However, I can see that the current formulation might not make this obvious. How about:

```suggestion
* Scale the AMS dedicated nodes vertically so that it fits all packages on the same set of nodes. For example, PostgreSQL-4 + PostgreSQL-8 would be put on 3x 4C16G Nodes, wasting 4GB of RAM.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit confused. You say

> However, we rejected this options because it is wasteful

But then in **Decision Outcome** this option is chosen 😄

Author: Decision:

- Always scale horizontally and place each package on its dedicated pair of nodes

Next steps:

- What do we do with the enterprise customer - we revert the batch grouping and do it with dedicated nodes -- create issue to revert this for all clusters in the next sprint - @Xartos 
- Replace batch-number with elastisys.io/ams-cluster-name -- change the adr to this new decision - @lucianvlad  
- Create issue to implement better scripts to run upgrades in parallel for AMS nodes - @aarnq 
- Update the enterpirse customer todo with the new decision - @Xartos
